This is my essay about how developers deal with stress and anxious during the development.

In today world, we developers have to deal with so mamy important problems such as error in application, anxiety, depression, uncertainty etc.
 This is why we tend to chat with other fellow developers and drink a coffee and listening a music is help us to overcome those problems.


This is original file

-   Stress is a very complex phenomenon that we can define in several ways. 
    However, if you put them together, it is basically the wear and tear of daily life. 
    Stress management refers to a wide spectrum of techniques and psychotherapies for controlling a person’s stress level, 
    especially chronic stress. 
    If there is effective stress management, 
    we can help one another break the hold of stress on our lives. 
    The essay on stress management will throw light on the very same thing.

-Identifying the Source of Stress
The first step of stress management is identifying the source of stress in your life. It is not as easy as that but it is essential. The true source of stress may not always be evident as we tend to overlook our own stress-inducing thoughts and feelings.

For instance, you might constantly worry about meeting your deadline. But, in reality, maybe your procrastination is what leads to this stress than the actual deadline. In order to identify the source of stress, we must look closely within ourselves.

If you explain away stress as temporary, then it may be a problem. Like if you yourself don’t take a breather from time to time, what is the point? On the other hand, is stress an integral part of your work and you acknowledging it like that?

If you make it a part of your personality, like you label things as crazy or nervous energy, you need to look further. Most importantly, do you blame the stress on people around you or the events surrounding you?

It is essential to take responsibility for the role one plays in creating or maintaining stress. Your stress will remain outside your control if you do not do it.

Conclusion of the Essay on Stress Management
All in all, we can control our stress levels with relaxation techniques that evoke the relaxation response of our body. It is the state of restfulness that is the opposite of the stress response. Thus, when you practice these techniques regularly, you can build your resilience and heal yourself.

FAQs:

What is the importance of stress management?

Answer 1: Stress management is very efficient as it helps in breaking the hold which stress has on our lives. Moreover, you can also become happy, healthy and more productive because of it. The ultimate goal should be to live a balanced life and have the resilience to hold up under pressure.


Q1. I AM ALWAYS STRESSED OUT – WHY IS THAT?
A lot of people wonder why they are always stressed. They feel that regardless of the things happening in their life, whether positive or negative, they still find a way to feel stressed out. This stress is often the result of their doing. They tend to overthink and overanalyze everything; hence, they tend to see problems even when none exist.

Q2. HOW DO I RID MYSELF OF STRESS?
Stress works a lot like homework. You don’t do it every day, and eventually, it’s going to pile up into a huge mess. Similarly, if you let your problems pile up; you will feel more and more stressed out. So the best solution is to deal with your problems, one at a time. Don’t let it overwhelm you.

Q3. DOES MEDICATION HELP IN RELIEVING STRESS?
Normally, it is not advised that you take medication for stress. This is because by taking medication, you will continue to ignore the issues at hand. Moreover, there is a possibility that you will develop a tolerance for the medication and might require a higher dosage, which eventually can lead to a lot of side effects.

Q4. WHAT ARE THE HEALTHIER WAYS TO REDUCE STRESS?
Coping with your problems one at a time helps. But there are certain situations like the death of a loved one, where you may find coping very difficult. Hence, in those situations, you should try first to accept the truth of the situation, and then try to understand your feelings, and only then you should try to manage then. And you can always seek assistance from friends and family for the execution of the last part.

Q5. HOW EFFECTIVE IS EXERCISING IN REDUCING STRESS?
A lot of people say that exercise does wonders for you. This is most true for people dealing with everyday stressors. A half-hour dance too can help relax both